Update dimensionality reduction section (#202)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/05.heterogeneity.md

### Learning representations from rare disease data

> Dimensionality reduction methods can help ‘compress’ information from a large number of features into a smaller number of features in an unsupervised manner [@doi:10.1007/978-3-540-33037-0; @doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202, @https://www.jmlr.org/papers/v9/vandermaaten08a.html; @https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426] (Figure {@fig:1}C).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dimensionality reduction methods can ‘compress’ information from a large number of features into a more manageable number of features in an unsupervised manner [@doi:10.1007/978-3-540-33037-0; @doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202, @https://www.jmlr.org/papers/v9/vandermaaten08a.html; @https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426] (Figure {@fig:1}C).
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, not sure if it's really an improvement.

> An example of a method that is commonly used for dimensionality reduction is principal components analysis (PCA), which identifies new features or dimensions, termed principal components (PCs), that are linear combinations of original features that consecutively capture maximum variance and are uncorrelated with one another [@doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a method that is commonly used for dimensionality reduction is principal components analysis (PCA).
PCA identifies new features (or "dimensions"), termed principal components (PCs), that are combinations of original features.
The PCs are calculated in a way that maximizes the amount of information ("variance") they contain and ensures that each PC is uncorrelated with the other PCs [@doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202].
```

Reviewer: Thought maybe this could use a little more elaboration, and shorter sentences.

> In practice, researchers often use the first few PCs to reduce the dimensionality without removing what may be important or informative variability in the data, though PCs are obtained without regard for labels (e.g., disease vs. control or dataset of origin).

Author: Reviewers: please take a close look at these sentences in particular and make recommendations 😄 

I'm not totally happy with them yet.

Beyond reducing the number of features in various types of data [@doi:10.1016/j.media.2020.101660; @doi:10.1038/ncomms14825], dimensionality reduction can also be used to visualize structure or artifacts in the data (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13056-x]), to define sample subgroups (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-15351-4], or for feature selection and extraction during application of specific machine learning models [@doi:10.1007/978-3-030-03243-2_299-1] (Figure {@fig:1}D). 

> Methods like PCA, multidimensional scaling (MDS), t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE), and uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) can help researchers successfully identify useful patterns in the original data, though t-SNE and UMAP may require tuning of hyperparameters – values used to set up a model that are often specified by a user, rather than learned from the data – that may effect the output [@https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426; @doi:10.23915/distill.00002].

Author: Response to comment https://github.com/jaybee84/ml-in-rd/issues/174#issuecomment-889202535

> What are hyperparameters?

> Methods like PCA, multidimensional scaling (MDS), t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE), and uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) can help researchers successfully identify useful patterns in the original data, though t-SNE and UMAP may require tuning of hyperparameters – values used to set up a model that are often specified by a user, rather than learned from the data – that may effect the output [@https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426; @doi:10.23915/distill.00002].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods like PCA, multidimensional scaling (MDS), t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE), and uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) can help researchers successfully identify useful patterns in the original data, though t-SNE and UMAP may require adjusting the hyperparameters – values used to set up a model that can be specified by a user, rather than learned from the data – that may effect the output [@https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426; @doi:10.23915/distill.00002].
```

Reviewer: Tuning hyperparameters sounds intimidating, thought maybe this was more friendly?

Testing multiple dimensionality reduction methods, rather than a single method, may be necessary to obtain a more comprehensive portrait of the data [@doi:10.1186/s13059-020-02021-3]. 
Nguyen and Holmes discuss additional important considerations for using dimensionality reduction methods such as selection criteria and interpretation of results [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006907].
Beyond dimensionality reduction, other unsupervised learning approaches such as k-means clustering or hierarchical clustering have been used to characterize the structure present in genomic or imaging data [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-9-497; @doi:10.1109/jbhi.2013.2276766].

> Representation learning approaches, of which dimensionality reduction methods are a subset, learns low-dimensional representations (composite features) from the raw data. 

Author: Response to comment https://github.com/jaybee84/ml-in-rd/issues/174#issuecomment-889202535

> `Dimensionality reduction, or more fundamentally, representation learning` is this implying that both dimensionality reduction and representation learning are the same?

### Learning representations from rare disease data

Dimensionality reduction methods can help ‘compress’ information from a large number of features into a smaller number of features in an unsupervised manner [@doi:10.1007/978-3-540-33037-0; @doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202, @https://www.jmlr.org/papers/v9/vandermaaten08a.html; @https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426] (Figure {@fig:1}C).
An example of a method that is commonly used for dimensionality reduction is principal components analysis (PCA).

> PCA identifies new features (or "dimensions"), termed principal components (PCs), that are combinations of original features.

Author: ```suggestion
PCA identifies new features or dimensions, termed principal components (PCs), that are combinations of original features.
```

> The PCs are calculated in a way that maximizes the amount of information ("variance") they contain and ensures that each PC is uncorrelated with the other PCs [@doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202].

Author: I think our convention would be to italicize variance here.
```suggestion
The PCs are calculated in a way that maximizes the amount of information (_variance_) they contain and ensures that each PC is uncorrelated with the other PCs [@doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202].
```
